- [Instructor] So now that we've got our config server
up and running,
it's time to start consuming that config
in our other micro services.
So let's jump over here to our IDE
and open up our guest services,
and I want to start here with the pom file.
First thing we're going to do is we're going to add a new property
and the property that we are going to add
is spring-cloud.version.
And we're going to set this today
equal to the value of Hoxton.RC2.
Now you'll want to make sure that you use
the latest compatible version of Spring Cloud.
And this is the easiest way to make that happen.
So let's scroll down here
and we are going to add a dependency.
And the dependency that we are going to add
is spring-cloud-config-client.
And that is going to come from org.springframework.cloud.
Now one thing to note
is this may not resolve right away
because we've got to go put in a few more values.
The next thing that we are going to add
is we're going to add a dependency management section
and this is to bring in our spring cloud dependencies.
Much the same way that spring boot operates.
So we're going to bring in our artifact ID
of spring-cloud-dependencies
and this comes from org.springframework.cloud.
And we'll bring in a version.
And that version is going to be equal to dollar sign
curly brace spring-cloud.version.
And the type of this artifact is a pom.
And the scope of this is going to be import only.
And the last thing that we need to add
is we need to add a repository section.
And specifically a repository.
And that repository will have an IDE of spring milestones
and a name of spring milestones
and then a URL that equals https://repo.spring.io/milestone.
So now we'll be able to update this as we need to,
but in the meantime we've got everything set up
in order for our application to start, dependency wise,
communicating with our service.
So now we can actually go in and put in our bootstrap.
So in source main resources,
I want you to create a new file.
And that file is going to be called bootstrap.properties.
In our bootstrap.properties
we are going to put in a spring.application.name.
And that spring.application.name
is going to be equal to guestservices.
This actually needs to be the same name
as the properties file
that we put on the config server itself.
Kind of makes sense.
We have to have a one to one mapping between our service
and the configuration itself.
We're also going to put in here a spring.cloud.config.uri.
In other words we're going to tell it where to go look at
and it's going to look at http://localhost:9000.
So at this point we've got everything that we need to do.
We're going to leave our config server up and running.
So if it's not go ahead and get it started.
And now we're going to start our guest services application.
Now if you remember earlier,
the guest services ran on port 8080.
So now as we start this application up,
you can see in my little window here
that it's actually started at 8800.
Let's confirm that.
We're going to go to a web browser
and we're going to go to localhost:8080/guests.
404, makes sense.
We are no longer serving there,
so we're going to change that to 8800
and we get data back.
So now we've configured our service
through the externalized config
to get its server port.
And obviously
this is a very trivial example of configuration,
but no matter how complex your configuration is,
it all operates the exact same way.